.TH "RtAudioError" 3 "22 Jan 2002" "RtAudio" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
RtAudioError \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
\fC#include <RtAudio.h>\fP
.PP
.SS "Public Types"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBTYPE\fP { \fBWARNING\fP, \fBDEBUG_WARNING\fP, \fBUNSPECIFIED\fP, \fBNO_DEVICES_FOUND\fP, \fBINVALID_DEVICE\fP, \fBINVALID_STREAM\fP, \fBMEMORY_ERROR\fP, \fBINVALID_PARAMETER\fP, \fBDRIVER_ERROR\fP, \fBSYSTEM_ERROR\fP, \fBTHREAD_ERROR\fP }"
.br
.in -1c
.SS "Public Methods"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBRtAudioError\fP (const char *p, \fBTYPE\fP tipe=RtAudioError::UNSPECIFIED)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe constructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual \fB~RtAudioError\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIThe destructor.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual void \fBprintMessage\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIPrints 'thrown' error message to stdout.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual const \fBTYPE\fP& \fBgetType\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the 'thrown' error message TYPE.\fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "virtual const char* \fBgetMessage\fP (void)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the 'thrown' error message string.\fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Protected Attributes"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBerror_message\fP [256]"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBTYPE\fP \fBtype\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "MEMBER ENUMERATION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "enum RtAudioError::TYPE"
.PP
\fBEnumeration values:\fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIWARNING\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fIDEBUG_WARNING\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fIUNSPECIFIED\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fINO_DEVICES_FOUND\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fIINVALID_DEVICE\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fIINVALID_STREAM\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fIMEMORY_ERROR\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fIINVALID_PARAMETER\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fIDRIVER_ERROR\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fISYSTEM_ERROR\fP \fP
.TP
\fB\fITHREAD_ERROR\fP \fP

.SH "CONSTRUCTOR & DESTRUCTOR DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "RtAudioError::RtAudioError (const char * p, \fBTYPE\fP tipe = RtAudioError::UNSPECIFIED)"
.PP
The constructor.
.PP
.SS "RtAudioError::~RtAudioError (void)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
The destructor.
.PP
.SH "MEMBER FUNCTION DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "void RtAudioError::printMessage (void)\fC [virtual]\fP"
.PP
Prints 'thrown' error message to stdout.
.PP
.SS "const \fBTYPE\fP & RtAudioError::getType (void)\fC [inline, virtual]\fP"
.PP
Returns the 'thrown' error message TYPE.
.PP
.SS "const char * RtAudioError::getMessage (void)\fC [inline, virtual]\fP"
.PP
Returns the 'thrown' error message string.
.PP
.SH "MEMBER DATA DOCUMENTATION"
.PP 
.SS "char RtAudioError::error_message\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP
.SS "\fBTYPE\fP RtAudioError::type\fC [protected]\fP"
.PP


.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for RtAudio from the source code.